00:00 Chapter 12. People don't really want relationships.
00:13 After reading through an entire book dedicated to discussing why people enter into relationships and under what conditions, this chapter title may come as a shock.
00:22 However, to the extent that you're surprised by this claim, you haven't been paying attention. I said as much in the first pages when I defined relationships as the media in which value is transacted.
00:32 People rarely form even temporary relationships out of the simple joy of connecting with others. And when they do, they are still transacting the value of connection, which, by definition, requires a relationship.
00:44 Where there is no transacted value, a relationship neither exists nor can exist. The only rational conclusion from all this is that what people really want is value, not relationships per se.
00:56 For many people, entering into relationships constitutes their best possible chance of securing that value. As previously discussed, it is a common strategy.
01:04 However, it is only one such strategy. If people can secure the same good more cheaply, more easily, and more safely in other ways, then they will predictably and understandably do so.
01:20 Suggesting that this isn't true, or only conditionally true, is not only illogical, it runs counter to both the evidence of our senses and what we know about human beings.
01:30 Arguing that people should enter into relationships that require greater expense, difficulty, and risk because it is virtuous to do so, or conducive to self-development, or essential to social cohesion, or somehow necessary for a given moral or ethical framework, is akin to arguing that people should
01:48 undergo hard physical exercise for the same reasons. It doesn't work, which is why the Western world has an obesity epidemic.
01:59 Continuing to insist on some religious or philosophical imperative to behave in certain ways is not only likely to alienate those who, in the arguer's mind, would benefit most from the message, but is tantamount to refusing to understand why people make the decisions they do as well.
02:16 It is posturing for the converted. For instance, the obesity epidemic is occurring, at least in part, because, until very recently, it was more expensive, difficult, and risky for most people to pursue leisure than productive labor, which typically involved hard physical exercise.
02:34 Lazing about when there were crops to tend was expensive, because allowing key moments to lapse would decrease overall yield. It was difficult, because living closer to subsistence was marked by hardships and deprivations, and it was risky, because people may have been purchasing today's comfort at the
02:48 cost of tomorrow's starvation. By the same token, until very recently, it was more expensive, difficult, and risky to consume productive labor.
02:56 Processed foodstuffs, then organic whole foods. Processing foods through industrial processes when farm-grown food was readily available was expensive, because startup and maintenance costs were much higher.
03:07 It was difficult, because it required knowledge and skills that were non-intuitive, and not easily transmissible through technology. Through folk wisdom, and it was risky, because people were functionally trying to earn money to procure food, instead of merely procuring food directly.
03:21 My point is that throughout most of human history, people have undertaken hard physical labor not because they were the salt of the earth.
03:28 Not because they believed doing so conferred virtue or fostered self-development, not because it was good for society, and certainly not because labor was more expensive, difficult, or risky than any other alternatives.
03:40 They did this because throughout most of human history, hard physical labor was represented most people's best possible chance of improving the conditions of their lives and staving off misery.
03:51 If they could do these things more cheaply, more easily, and more safely using means other than hard physical labor, they absolutely would have done so.
04:00 My conviction here derives from the fact that human beings, as biopsychosocial organisms, have not significantly changed in recent history. How people make decisions today, through the covert calculus of value discussed in Chapter 1, is how people made decisions 100 or 100,000 years ago.
04:16 The numbers may differ, but the math remains the same. This is because the valuation process is as hard-wired into our neurology as the principles of logic, which do not vary across culture or time.
04:30 So what we are collectively dealing with today are the predictions of dictable social consequences of making productive labor and organic food more expensive, difficult, and risky than leisure and processed foods does.
04:41 The current generation is not especially weak or stupid or vulnerable. At least, it's not any weaker or stupider or more vulnerable than any other.
04:50 We're dealing with these problems not due to a moral lapse, a failure of character, or a culture of narcissism, though there's plenty of that to go around, but because our technologies have sufficiently evolved to significantly alter the perception of value in a critical mass of people.
05:04 Advancing moral arguments will do little to influence this critical mass. On the other hand, if physical labor and organic food were suddenly and sustainably to become cheaper, easier, and safer than leisure and processed foodstuffs, then the obesity epidemic would resolve itself fairly quickly and without
05:20 any moral lapse. That said, the problem, or the threat of the problem, will never disappear entirely because a preference for fats, salts, and sugars is so deeply encoded in our biological substrate as a consequence of our nutrient-poor evolution that it cannot possibly be controlled for all people at
05:35 all times. We can alter the availability or desirability of certain options only to a point. Anything past that point generally requires more expense than is justified by the return on investment.
05:46 For better or worse, comfort and convenience are not going anywhere anytime soon. So, what's to be done? Campaigns of shame generally don't work in diverse, pluralistic societies because it's difficult to implement the social penalties that actually make shame effective in a consistent and unified manner
06:04 . Furthermore, expecting people to voluntarily select the more expensive difficult and risky option, when cheap, easy and safe alternatives are known to exist and have already been integrated into society, would either require an increasingly tyrannical system of control to keep certain technologies 
06:18 out of the hands of the general public, and a tireless propaganda machine to justify this control, or a war-like or catastrophe of such unimaginable scale that the recalibration of value accurately reflected the new reality.
06:31 Suffice it to say, neither of these possibilities is particularly attractive, and the costs and risks associated with either likely far outweigh the costs and risks of the status quo.
06:40 Consequently, it may be best to accept that certain features of society are likely to remain with us for the foreseeable future, leverage change interventions where they are most likely to be effective, and seek out new advantages and opportunities afforded by the current state of affairs.
06:55 All this has a clear analogue to the sexual marketplace. As difficult as it may be to believe, people have entered into relationships for largely the same reasons they have historically undergone hard physical labor.
07:06 Both have represented the best available solution to certain critical problems of living for the majority of people. And just as we could predict a decrease in physical labor, as this solution became increasingly expensive, unsafe, and risky relative to other available options, we can predict a decrease
07:23 in all kinds of relationships for the same reason. Or rather, we could predict a In reality, the relationship decline foretold by these conditions is already upon us.
07:34 People are not entering into relationships as often as they used to. The number of Americans who report not having a sex has quadrupled over the past 20 years.
07:47 In the United States, marriage rates are half of what they were in 1970 and are currently the lowest they have ever been in history.
07:54 People around the world are also decoupling more frequently, as reflected in a doubling of the global number divorce rate across the same time period.
08:02 Women today have half as many children as they did just 75 years ago, and half of the population of the world currently lives in countries that exist below self-replacement rates.
08:12 Much of the civilized world is skirting on the fringes of population collapse. As social structures that have been preserved for centuries are disintegrating in real time.
08:20 How did this happen? The confluence of variables that has given rise to this situation is extremely complex. No explanation can hope to include every contributing factor.
08:31 That said, I believe we have two specific technological changes are principally responsible for the contemporary decline in relationships, and I will briefly discuss each in turn.
08:40 Note that the emphasis here is on technological changes, not ideological ones. For instance, the ideology of feminism is often maligned.
08:48 This is as the force behind the destabilization of the contemporary sexual marketplace. However, this is implausible, since feminism existed as a social movement for over 100 years before the onset of the precipitous decline in relationships.
09:02 This is not to say that feminism, especially fourth-wave feminism, is not contributing to the issues we are currently facing. It is.
09:08 But to assert that it is not the principal cause of this state of affairs. The uncomfortable reality is that certain ideologies are only feasible with sufficiently advanced technologies.
09:18 Insisting that any ideology is realistically feasible. Given any set of material conditions is to abide in an idealism divorced from reality.
09:25 For instance, capitalism could only be fully realized with the machinery of the industrial revolution. Even hunter-gatherer societies exploit the productivity advantage inherent in the division of labor and store up goods.
09:36 The fundamental tenets of capitalism are quite old, they just couldn't be realized at scale without the enabling technology. By the same token, the modern feminist movement can be traced back to the 18th century.
09:49 And we certainly haven't been flirting with population collapse. This is because many tenets of feminism remain partially or entirely unrealizable namely, cheap, effective Without birth control, feminism would have remained a relatively inconsequential social philosophy and women would not enjoy many
10:16 of the freedoms they do today. For instance, it's not wrong to assert that without their own economic power, women could never truly become a social and political political force that men would need to take seriously.
10:27 However, any truth in this statement was rendered functionally irrelevant when women were pregnant for the better part of their adulthoods and saddled with childcare responsibilities that only they could discharge.
10:36 The advent of birth control is what allowed a critical mass of women to step out of the domestic world. to develop social identities independent of their by the Food and Drug Administration in 1960, Personally, I don't have a problem with any of this.
10:59 To be honest, it would be morally precarious to argue in favor of less freedom and self-determination for any particular demographic of human beings.
11:06 These goods are not the issue. The issue is precisely the slowly dawning realization that we These goods are inseparable from certain consequences for the sexual marketplace.
11:17 Consequences that reverberate all the way to the core of civilization. They are two sides of the same coin. Try as you like, you cannot have one without the other.
11:28 Consequences of the proliferation of birth control are of particular note to us here. The first is that it has irrevocably reversed the order of sex and commitment in the courtship process.
11:37 Throughout most of accorded history, a man was expected to offer a woman commitment in order to access her sexual opportunity.
11:44 And though it may have masqueraded as such, this requirement was not enforced due to a concern for female virtue, or a preoccupation with religious morality, or a fondness for the institution of marriage.
11:54 All of which continue to exist, at least to some extent, today. It was enforced because it would have been extremely dangerous.
12:00 It it difficult for a single mother and offspring to survive without the resources of a provisioning man, or a social program that served that function.
12:08 The stakes associated with pregnancy outside the context of a committed relationship were significantly higher for women, when they could neither earn their own money nor rely on social welfare for support.
12:19 As a result, women were, understandably, much less likely to consent to sex prior to commitment, and this reticence was protected by a powerful social stigma that was grounded less in the righteous morality of the majority, and more in the awareness that destitute women and children would be their problem
12:34 if the man in question could not be persuaded to commit. All this changed with the widespread use of birth control, which functionally separated sex from reproduction.
12:43 By reducing the likelihood of pregnancy to a negligible possibility, the rational necessity for commitment was prior to sex was eliminated.
12:50 What's more, given the fact that women can and do earn their own money, that fathers are legally obligated to provide financial support to their children's mothers, even if they never explicitly consented to such an arrangement, and that heavily funded social welfare programs exist to subsidize birth
13:04 as single mothers, the stakes associated with pregnancy outside the context of a committed relationship are now significantly lower for women.
13:12 Finally, although sex generally involves the active participation of two consenting adults, women have been given the unilateral power to choose where they become mothers, irrespective of the desires or preferences of the men involved.
13:24 And since women have been empowered with the formal right to choose whether they become mothers, it should come as little surprise that men have increasingly decided that they have the informal right to choose whether they become fathers.
13:52 commitment has been downgraded from a practical necessity to a personal preference, and the rational basis for securing commitment prior to sex has been completely eroded with birth control.
14:02 In the absence of a necessity for male commitment, all the moral exhortations in the world to return to the previous sex previous arrangement, and why it would be good for children and parents and society to do so, will not be sufficient in light of these economic realities.
14:16 Again, it's not that such arguments aren't true, it's that they don't work. Such arguments will only hold sway in certain corners of society among the already converted.
14:26 Since men are the gatekeepers of commitment, and the rates of committed relationships have dropped precipitously over the past 60 years, the logical deduction is that men's covert calculus associated with the value of commitment must have shifted dramatically over that period.
14:39 And this is precisely what has happened. Let's be honest. A lifetime of protection and provision is an extremely high price to pay for sex, especially considering the lack of an enforceable guarantee that sex will be particularly forthcoming after commitment.
14:56 Many of the relationships we are prone to romanticize from our grandparents' generation were actually hastily formed unions between horny teenagers who would have gotten divorced decades ago had the option been available to them.
15:07 The price that men have historically paid for sex has been incredibly high. However, the male sex drive is so deep and powerful and irrefutable that men have been willing to do incredible things to satisfy it, provided no reasonable alternatives were open to them with a decent likelihood of success.
15:24 Birth control significantly decreased the costs associated with sex for men. For both men and women, in gender-specific ways. On the one hand, it greatly reduced the likelihood that a woman would incur the expenses associated with single motherhood against her will.
15:37 And on the other hand, it materially reduced the possibility that a man would misinvest his resources in an unrewarding partnership.
15:44 By eliminating the rational necessity for doing so prior to the sexual encounter. By functionally eliminating each gender's two biggest fears in one fell swoop, birth control made sex safe.
15:56 It also made sex cheap. From commanding a market rate of 11 a lifetime of commitment, protection, and provision, a valuation that, in retrospect, might now seem too good to last, the price of sex has fallen to a couple of drinks at the local bar.
16:10 This is unlikely to change any time soon. Once a critical mass of women was willing to have sex prior to commitment, the remainder were functionally forced to do so as well in order to stay competitive.
16:20 This is because no one will pay more than they need to for a comparable good, and a woman who continued to insist on commitment up front, without offering a compensatory good for the additional expense, would be pricing herself out of the sexual marriage.
16:32 The decimation of sex's marketplace value has predictably led to a significant decrease in the number of relationships, because the price of sex is so low that many people are deciding that transacting for it isn't worth the effort.
16:47 Much like a home-owning company. While emotionally understandable, this strategy is often counterproductive given the general marketplace values.
17:05 Most women will never enjoy a higher valuation than they do today, and so incur a greater loss out of their unwillingness to suffer a smaller one.
17:14 By the same token, an increasing number of men would also rather forego a transaction than move forward at a perceived loss.
17:20 Paying more resources than they would like in exchange for a given sexual opportunity. Since sex has been rendered so cheap, women would have to provide men with another desirable good of comparable value to offset the cost of men's commitment.
17:33 Which, due to certain reproductive realities, will always be more expensive. Unfortunately, many of the desirable goods that men of previous generations could reasonably expect from women in committed relationships childcare, cooking, cleaning, femininity, pleasant agreeableness, have been recast by 
17:49 contemporary feminism as beneath the dignity of modern society. women to perform. The upshot is that the cheapening of sex has led to a widening divide between men and women in the valuation of sexual relationships.
18:01 Each side believes the other wants more for less. And both are right. This is because women are anchoring their valuation to historical precedence.
18:10 From their perspective, modern men seem like unscrupulous cads who have no idea how to treat a lady. They believe modern men won't give them anything of value in exchange for their monopolized sexual commodity, i.e.
18:20 sex. On the other hand, men are anchoring their valuation to current historical market conditions. From their perspective, modern women seem like greedy lunatics who refuse to read the writing on the wall.
18:31 Men believe modern women won't give them anything of value in exchange for their monopolized sexual commodity, i.e. commitment. As the valuation gap widens, fewer men for relationships are transacted.
18:43 It probably wouldn't be overstating the fact to argue that nearly all of women's social progress over the past 60 years has been made possible by the proliferation of birth control.
18:52 Among other things, this has allowed women to postpone marriage and motherhood until later in their reproductive window. And to establish themselves in the major spheres of social life.
18:59 And women certainly have done well for themselves. Girls and young women are now significantly more likely than boys and young men to graduate from high school and college.
19:07 Single women are 40% more likely to own a home than are single men. And perhaps even for the first time in history, childless women under 30 are out-earning men in the same demographic in many urban centers.
19:19 In many respects, the average young woman is now more successful than the average young man. Unfortunately, these achievements are inseparable from our certain consequences for the sexual marketplace.
19:31 This is because men's and women's preferences for mates do not change as quickly or easily as the cultural zeitgeist. Three generations is no time at all relative to our evolutionary past, and our attraction remains heavily informed by our selection pressures that have exerted their influence over millennia
19:47 . Women's collective success has made mating and dating more difficult and expensive for both men and women. In the first place, women's social success has significantly reduced the pool of men that women would even consider as candidates for mating.
20:03 Despite their social advantages, women have not surrendered their hypergamous instincts. They still desire men who can elevate their lifestyles. A little girl dreams that one day she will meet a handsome prince.
20:14 No woman fantasizes that one day she will financially support a man. In fact, many women don't see the point of entering into a relationship that isn't likely to significantly improve the quality of their lives, let alone one that would be a drain on their resources.
20:29 Of course, the more success women achieve, the harder it becomes for them to find more successful men. That's bad for women, because fewer eligible men significantly increases the intrasexual competition for a dwindling pool of potential mates.
20:42 And it's also bad for men, because many of them are simply being disqualified from the sexual marketplace. In a time when many women have ships, it's not enough for a man to have a boat.
20:51 One unintended consequence of this situation is that an increasingly greater share of the sexual opportunity is being concentrated among an increasingly smaller number of men.
21:01 The most successful men who reside at the top of their status hierarchy are currently enjoying an unprecedented amount of sexual opportunity from an extraordinary number of women.
21:10 And given their access and optionality, these highly desirable men are extremely unlikely to exchange their privileged positions for a monogamous relationship with any one woman.
21:20 After all, whether or not they are aware of it, cultivating sexual optionality was the primary motivation behind these men's bids for power and status.
21:28 After years of effort, why would they surrender the prize they worked so hard to achieve? The result is that women are increasingly disqualifying more men from considerating them.
21:36 Which, in turn, increases the likelihood that men who do qualify will disqualify them, since the optionality these men enjoy drives up the price of their exclusive commitment.
21:46 This results in fewer relationships all around. As women are increasingly empowered to pursue their sexual scruples, societies will become increasingly polygamous.
21:56 A greater share of all the sexual opportunity will be concentrated among a smaller subset of men. Polygamy is the natural end state of hypergamy.
22:04 The reason why most societies are not overtly polygamous. Is because this end state has been unnaturally prevented by male-dominated patriarchal social structures.
22:16 This is because, from a utilitarian perspective, monogamy benefits men. When women are prevented from concentrating. their sexual opportunity among the highest status men, which is what they tend to do when left to their own devices, a greater proportion of the male population is afforded opportunities
22:33 for mating and dating. And in societies in which women both outnumber and outlive men, enforcing a one-woman-per-man rule? Functionally ensures that women must date down, affording more men with better sexual opportunities than they would otherwise be able to secure for themselves.
22:48 Under strict monogamy, even the most unattractive men have wives, while many decent women go unmarried. Of course, monogamy is good for men in general.
22:58 It typically does not benefit the men at the top of their hierarchies, who incur opportunity costs under monogamy that do not affect their lower status peers.
23:05 That said, successful men tend to find ways to work around the dictates of monogamy anyway, and usually with the enthusiastic participation of the women involved.
23:12 In any case, we can consider the institution of monogamy to be a kind of sexual socialism, in which reproductive resources are redistributed across the masses.
23:22 Though this comes at a cost to certain segments of the population, it improves the stability of society in general by, among other things, increasing the likelihood that enough children are born to replace the previous generation.
23:33 However, just like political socialism, the enforced equality of sexual socialism can only be maintained through formal and informal systems of coercion and control.
23:43 And with the collapse of traditional power, structures, the evident rise in polygamy can hardly be surprising. On the other hand, women's social success has also significantly reduced the pool of women that men would consider as candidates for mating.
23:56 This is because men have not surrendered their reproductive instincts either. They still desire women, and However, young and fertile women, empowered by an ideology made realizable by birth control, are increasingly uninterested in marriage and children.
24:09 As previously discussed, a growing proportion of women now devote their twenties, the decade in which they are most likely to secure a long-term commitment from a high-value man, to hedonic pursuits, e.g., travel and short-term sexual relationships, or career development, e.g., higher education and full-time
24:24 employment. Many of these decisions have significant downstream consequences. Women continue to desire resources and emotionally compelling lifestyles. However, in the modern age, it is easier for a greater share of women to directly secure these goods themselves than to indirectly secure them through
24:40 men, especially considering that unmarried men no longer significantly out-earn unmarried women. When reproductive realities motivate men and many of these successful women to re-evaluate their stance on children in their 30s, they often discover that finding a willing, satisfactory partner is more difficult
24:56 than expected. These women occupy a disadvantaged position in the sexual marketplace relative to men who, to the extent that they are desired by women, reasonably expect them to be sufficiently compensated for surrendering their optionality with something of comparable value to them—an attractive, reproductive
25:10 opportunity. Contrary to popular belief, men can and do forego their sexual optionality, but only under the condition that the woman to whom each commits represents a more attractive, reproductive opportunity than any of his other non-exclusive options. This is entirely rational.
25:28 No man will freely choose to surrender more and more attractive options in favor of a single, less attractive option. And when this does occur, he it is generally the result of social coercion or emotional manipulation.
25:41 Though it should go without saying, here it is. A 38-year-old woman is not an attractive, reproductive opportunity to most men.
25:49 In fact, she is an extremely costly opportunity to most for several reasons. Not only are geriatric pregnancies associated with an elevated risk of a host of complications for both mother and child, but they are more likely to require expensive fertility treatments to succeed.
26:04 What's more, a 38-year-old woman has a significantly smaller reproductive opportunity window than, say, a 22-year-old woman. However, although the older woman can conceive fewer children, she still generally demands as much, if not more, in exchange for her reproductive opportunity as the younger woman
26:21 does, namely, exclusive commitment over a lifetime at a more fully-extrapolated lifestyle. As a consequence, men who marry older women typically pay more for less.
26:30 This covert calculus renders women increasingly more unattractive to men as they age, over and above the decline in their physical attractiveness as a function of time.
26:39 Contrary to popular belief, men are not intimidated by successful women. This is a rationalization employed by such women to emotionally cope with their encountered difficulties in the sexual marketplace.
26:51 On the other hand, it might be true that men are not attracted to successful women. This is not because men are men find successful women unattractive per se, but because successful women are older women, given success takes time to achieve.
27:05 Men find and will continue to find the prospect of marrying a woman near the end of her reproductive window about as attractive as women find and will continue to find the prospect of marrying a man she will have to financially support.
27:16 And this wouldn't be true unless men exchange resources for sexual opportunity and women exchange sexual opportunity for resources. Moral outrage or exhortations to the contrary will do nothing to change this.
27:28 As disturbing as the recent relationship trends might be, we will likely need to contend with them for the foreseeable future.
27:34 This is because disrupting the decline in relationships would practically require the prohibition of birth control, which in turn would undermine all of women's social advances of the previous 60 years.
27:44 Not only would supporting such a solution be tantamount to social suicide in today's political environment, but the idea would also be functionally impossible to implement in reality.
27:52 The genie cannot go back into the bottle. At this point, a return to a male-dominated patriarchal society capable of implementing such a solution would be would likely require such a horrendous catastrophe, something on the scale of global nuclear conflict or protracted civil war, in which most of the
28:08 population is forced back into the game of survival, necessitating a return to traditional gender roles, that no sane person could prefer the cure to the disease.
28:16 For better or worse, going back is not an option. We can only move forward and adapt to circumstances as they evolve.
28:26 Almost real life. The promulgation of birth control has irrevocably altered the conditions of the sex world. By complex economic pathways, this technology has significantly altered the valuation of many components of the courtship process, and has directly contributed to substantial reductions in the
28:42 rates of committed relationships at the population level. On the other hand, as might be expected, birth control facilitates the practice and destigmatization of casual sex by dramatically altering the risk profile of non-marital sex for both men and women.
28:55 Fewer people were getting married, but given the large increases in both the rates of non-marital sex and the numbers of lifetime sexual partners in the wake of the pill, it was obvious that men and women remain very interested in each other.
29:08 However, over the past 10 years, we have witnessed a precipitous drop in even this sector of the sexual marketplace. Millennials and Gen Zers are not only getting married less often than their parents, but they're having less and less casual sex as well.
29:23 For instance, nearly one in three American men under 30 report that they have not had any sex in the previous 12 months, a proportion that has tripled in just the past 10 years.
29:33 Apparently, young men and women are growing increasingly disinterested in all forms of sexual relationships, as many succumb to frustration, confusion, and despair.
29:42 What is behind these recent changes? The technology that is responsible for this tidal shift in the sexual marketplace is Web 2.0, the stage of internet development carried out P2P connectivity, user-generated content, and social media.
29:57 Remember, relationships are the media in which value is transacted. However, sexual relationships represent just one potential solution for securing that value.
30:06 If people already possess the value in question, or if they could obtain the value more cheaply, more easily, and more safely using other solutions, then we should reasonably expect a growing proportion of the population to abandon sexual relationships in favor of these solutions.
30:19 Recent developments in web-based technologies collectively constitute these solutions. Think of it like this. No one really wants a job. People want a job because of what a job can give them.
30:30 Money. A job represents one potential solution to the problem of securing money. However, if people already had enough money, or if they suddenly could get money more cheaply, more easily, and more safely by other means, then they probably wouldn't go looking for a job.
30:44 Of course, for most people, a job is the only way they know to get money. So they go looking for a job, and look askance at anyone who suggests that a job might not be either strictly necessary, or the best way of getting money.
30:56 They create a virtue out of a perceived necessity, which, while not technically true, might be psychologically adaptive. In any case, it would be unreasonable to maintain that all people who no longer needed money would continue to work, which would result in fewer people seeking employment among this
31:10 demographic. This is common sense. I don't mean this at the population level. Civilization would fall apart without a lot of men, and humanity would go extinct without Women around.
31:29 And women need men around. However, modern man doesn't need a woman, and modern woman doesn't need a man. At least, not in the way that men and women needed each other even a few generations ago.
31:44 Throughout most of recorded history, men and women came together out of necessity. And that necessity was rooted in survival. Life was extremely difficult, and most people who have ever lived have done so at a subsistence level.
31:57 Few can survive alone under such conditions. This is why we This, at least partly, explains the clear inverse relationship between fertility rates and per capita GDP Since men and women no longer have to come together because they need to, we're increasingly seeing that men and women only come together
32:26 because they want to. And where there is neither the need nor the want, there is nothing. Of course, men and women continue to experience necessity and desire.
32:36 However, modern technologies have disrupted how people go about satisfying both within the sexual marketplace, which has led to observed declines in all forms of intersexual relationships.
32:45 A disclosure from one of my recent consults exemplifies this issue. According to my client, when his wife filed for divorce, she told him that she could get everything she needed from a man from TaskRabbit and Tinder.
32:57 Though some might consider such a statement callous or cruel, it is difficult to completely disregard the possibility that it reflects an underlying reality.
33:04 Apparently, this woman believed it would be easier and less expensive to secure her needs on the open market than in a committed relationship.
33:13 What's more, she could pay for these services, and more, using money earned by her ex-husband and awarded to her as alimony in the business.
33:20 To the extent this woman saw marriage as a solution to certain problems of living, which marriage is and has always been, it would have been irrational for her to remain in the relationship, given the incentives under which she was operating and the alternatives available to her.
33:35 This is not true. A particularly uncommon story. Existing relationships are threatened when more convenient and affordable solutions to personally relevant needs become available, and new relationships are less likely to form under such conditions.
33:49 However, these solutions have disrupted desire as much as, Until very recently, people were limited in their search for sexual partners to those to whom they had direct access in their immediate vicinity.
34:01 This created a natural restriction on individuals' optionality and set organic limits on intersexual competition. Both of which have been completely dismantled by dating apps and social media.
34:12 Actors in the sexual marketplace now enjoy direct access to almost every other single, and not-so-single, person in the entire world.
34:23 Whereas it may previously have been enough to secure a desirable reproductive opportunity by being a comparatively big fish in a relatively small pond, men and women now find themselves swimming in one gigantic ocean.
34:34 Every man must now compete with every other man on the planet for the girl next door. Every woman must now compete with every other woman in the world for their community's most eligible bachelor.
34:46 Optionality that previously was only available to emperors or movie starlets as recently as ten years ago is now taken for granted by ordinary men and women.
34:55 As my fellow It can't be expected.